docs: add neon integration (#706)
bytebase/bytebase.com: content/docs/how-to/integrations/neon.md

---
title: Manage Neon Database
description: Tutorial on how to manage Neon PostgreSQL database
---

## Overview

[Neon](https://neon.tech/) is a fully managed serverless PostgreSQL that offers cool features such as [database branching](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/branching/), and bottomless storage.

> You can create a branch of your PostgreSQL database on Neon and use Bytebase to manage the database development lifecycle for those databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a PostgreSQL instance on Neon and use Bytebase to manage the database development lifecycle for those databases.
```

![neon-project-details](/docs/how-to/integrations/neon-project-details.webp)

Within the file, we will need the following details to establish connection with Bytebase.

![env-file-details](/docs/how-to/integrations/neon-env-file-details.webp)

### Step 2 - Add Neon database instance to Bytebase

From your Bytebase **Create Instance** page, choose **Add Instance**, fill in the details to create the connection as follows:

1. **Database:** `PostgreSQL`.
2. **Instance Name:** any name of your choosing, e.g. `neon-bb`.
3. **Environment:** `Prod` or `Test` (select the environment you want to add the instance to).
4. **Host or Socket:** the **PGHOST** from the `.env` file
5. **Port:** 5432 (Neon uses the default PostgreSQL port of 5432 to connect)
6. **Username:** copy the **PGUSER** from the `.env` file
7. **Password:** copy the **PGPASSWORD** from the `.env` file
8. **Database:** copy the **PGDATABASE** from the `.env` file

![neon-bytebase-create-instance](/docs/how-to/integrations/neon-bytebase-create-instance.webp)

See [Add an Instance](/docs/get-started/configure-workspace/add-an-instance) for more details.

### Step 3 - Check if the database instance is properly imported

> All databases should be sycned properly. Expect some delay if the database instance is large.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All databases should be synced properly. Expect some delay if the database instance is large.
```

> All databases should be sycned properly. Expect some delay if the database instance is large.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All databases should be synced properly. Expect some delay if the database instance is large.
```

Author: good eye 👀
